[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from
four undisclosed locations in the UK. My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Anna Tyshensky,
Andrew Hunter Murray and James Harkin and once again we have gathered round the microphones with
our four favourite facts from the last seven days and in a particular order here we go. Starting
with fact number one that is Andy. My fact is there is a scientist at Imperial College who's been
studying the same bag of dust for 15 years. Are you are you grusting him up now for being lazy is
that what's happening here? Yeah that's right he's clearly taking his time over it you know I'm
not accusing him of swinging the lead outright but then again he is analysing every single speck
of dust in his bag so I can see why it's taken time. He's called Matthew Genge, he's a planetary
scientist at Imperial College and he specialises in micrometeorites which is basically grains of
dust from other worlds and they land on earth all the time. He's got a bag which he collected in
Antarctica in 2006, it took him five minutes to collect but that was the easy bit because then he
has to go through it speck by speck and just work out which specks are micrometeorites which is
the exciting ones and which ones are just dust and yeah. He's got 3,000 of them so far, 3,000
particles he's really good at picking out of this bag yeah. That's not good going at all.
Wait he's been doing 15 years and he's only managed to get a 3,000. Look he's got other
stuff on I mean he's got to eat you know he's probably got a bit of work on. I think I could
count 3,000 grains of dust within a couple of days max. No you couldn't. Absolutely not.
It's not okay sorry he's not counting to 3,000. That would assume that every single grain of dust
was a winner, he has to go through everyone and analyse it. There's a lot of regular dust in there
as well so he's separating it, it's not as if it's a big bag of cosmic dust he's going well
he's not the count from Sesame Street, he's analysing every single dust particle that comes
out of there. How does he work out the difference between meteorite and a non-meteorite, a meteorong
like we've called them before? Glad you asked. Andy? Well thanks Dan. Anna do you have anything
to add on this? Well I was going to say you two seem so sure about how difficult this work is
and yeah when I ask you how it's done. You need a microscope that's guaranteed if you're not doing
it with the naked eye. I mean you can clearly identify what they're made of with the microscope
and I think that's how he does it. Well definitely because it's the way that they're made isn't it?
When you get a micrometeorite it's made in space and it comes down through the Earth's atmosphere
and it goes really really hot so they tend to be really really round with like filaments coming
off them and also they're made of something slightly different aren't they because they've
come from space so they tend to be metallic so there's lots of different ways that you can tell
I think. Yeah you can just skim a magnet around a random surface right? That's how Anna does it.
That's how I spend my weekends. This is actually a tip that I read for if you want to find your
own and this is from this amazing guy that I'm sure you've read about this Norwegian jazz musician
called John Larson who doubles up as a scientist and he basically has proven that ordinary plebs
like us are able to collect our own little bits of space dust and yeah he does his with a magnet
so he went all across the roofs of a city magnetizing bits of space dust up. I love this guy. His
band were called Hot Club de Norvige. In fact I still called that but he's retired and he was
one of the best known jazz musicians in the whole of Norway and then whenever he was on tour he would
go around looking for micrometer rights just collecting dust and looking for them and then
he would keep sending them to this guy professor Genj say here's another one here's another one
and Genj would just be like oh for god's sake mate I don't tell you how to play the jazz trumpet
or whatever why are you doing this and eventually he was like okay fine I'll look at it and he
looked at it and he realized that this guy John Larson was actually doing really good work and
between them they were the first people to ever announce that you can find micrometer rights
like Hannah says just in your gutter or wherever. Well I do know as a lockdown project Matt Parker
our buddy whose festival has spoken known he went up into his roofs guttering and he grabbed a bunch
of stuff and he's been doing this as well he's been trying to find cosmic dust yeah landing in his gutter.
Very dangerous don't try it at home really I mean they're very weak gutters aren't they
but the good thing if you can get up to them is that they have the newest dust it's the most
up-to-date space dust you'll get because apparently they get cleaned relatively often
compared to most surfaces you're bombed into and so that's dust that has recently landed
and if you want really fresh dust check the weather forecast but for space and find out when
the next meteor shower is you know the space weather forecast. Press the red button when
the normal weather forecast is on it takes you to the secret space forecast. Any aliens who are
watching the BBC now press the red button and we'll tell you what the weather's like in your
solar system. Anyway look look for a meteor shower on your alien weather forecast and then wash your
roof because that'll get rid of all the old past it space dust and then when the meteor shower comes
then and this is another one of Rockstar John Larson's tips he says then you'll just get the
debris from that exact meteor shower so you'll know exactly which space dust you're getting.
Yeah that is really cool. Do you know that Matt Genge might one day find a particle of a meteorite
also named Matt Genge? Oh yeah. Isn't that cool? How will he know though? Like it's not gonna have his
name on it is it? No I guess maybe it just have the M if it's so small. But you've got to be careful
because M and M's have an M on them as well. I don't want to mix them up. Imagine that that'd be a great
frank, couldn't it? Just put some M and M's in his dust and he's like oh my god I found one of my
meteorites. Well he's the big deal in the cosmic dust world and such a big deal that there is actually
an eight kilometer wide asteroid near Mars that has been named in his honor for his contributions
to the science. So one day he could yeah he could pull out. Is it the more famous you are the bigger
the comet that would be named after you is? Does it? No I don't think so because then like whatever
meteorites about to hit the earth is necessarily going to be named after either the queen or Mick
Jagger which doesn't really seem fair does it? It'd be cool if it was a Mick Jagger. I wouldn't
mind her being wiped out by Mick Jagger's meteorite. More of a flying stone than a rolling one.
Have you heard of Penelope Vozniakiewicz? So she is another space dust expert and she went to
the Marshall Islands to find space dust because every square meter of earth gets about 10 particles
a year of space dust. That's the average right? 10 particles? I don't fancy Matt Parker's chances
of finding them. You're right. It's every once a month a square meter will get one particle
and it's quite a lot in aggregate. It's 30,000 tons in aggregate but obviously that's because
the world is quite big. But problem as you guys have all been saying is that it's really hard to
find it among normal dust and there is so much dust in most places all sort of random dirt.
But if you go to places with zero dust you have a much better chance and the Marshall Islands are
a thousand miles away from the nearest land so there is you know wind blows less random crud
into the land and so that is a really good place to find the dust. It's obviously a long way to
go. It's not like you're gutter but once you get there you have better chances. Okay. And the way
you find it is you get a brush and you have a single hair on that brush. It's like a paint brush
but with one hair and some scientists even use a single eyelash. They just take one of their
eyelashes and they strap it to a brush handle and they use that to pick up the micrometeorite
and look at it under the microscope. How do you strap an eyelash onto anything? Yeah so do all
these micrometeologists have no eyelashes? That's how you spot a really successful one. Yeah.
We should say with micrometeorites is they're not the same as a small meteorite because a
micrometeorite is made of different stuff than meteorites. So meteorites we think come from
asteroid belts but it looks like micrometeorites probably come from comets because they contain
little bits of water which meteorites don't contain. And what's interesting about that is there is a
hypothesis that all of the earth's oceans came from these tiny, tiny, tiny meteorites just millions
and millions and billions and billions of them landing on earth over years and years and years
and years and years and eventually tiny bits of water becoming more water becoming more water
becoming our oceans. That's incredible. Isn't that cool? That's incredible. So Matt Parker's
gutter might flood. Yeah. Well, that matter if you're listening. Well the next 4.5 billion years.
That must have been so boring at the early stages when you're just looking into the
beds of the world's oceans waiting for it to fill up. Like you know when you're trying to
fill a paddling pool and it's taking a really long time. Exactly. But it's amazing isn't it?
How much enters our planet every day? In fact what's actually peculiar is we're not quite
sure how much it is but it could be up to 300 tons a day. It could be as little as five as well
as the other calculations. So it's somewhere in between but it's an extraordinary amount and
it's really important for our planet particularly our oceans. Like not only did it as you say James,
maybe seed the oceans all together but also a lot of animals, a lot of organisms actually
rely on these micrometeorites because of the iron and so on in them. They sort of feed them.
They feed their nature. There is one theory that if there's anything that lives on Mars which we
don't think there is but if there's anything that lives in the soil of Mars then they probably eat
these micrometeorites because they contain bits of like you say nickel and metals and things like
that. It's really wild. Just a thing about dust? Dust. There is a dust library in Ohio State University.
Now all libraries are quite dusty aren't they? That's a good point but those ones have books and
this one has no books it just has the pieces of dust. This was from a new scientist piece in 2011
and they were studying the different bits of dust because when you look at them that you know
depending on whether it's a bit of a thread of cotton or a piece of soot or carbon or whatever
they look really different on the microscope. Anyway it only had 63 particles in 2011 so I
don't know if they've got way more now. Sorry this library has 63 grains of dust in it but then
every other library has way more. I know but I think these are categorised and then it's not a
lending library. This library has the fewest bits of dust in the whole world of all the libraries
and yet it has the goal to call itself a dust library. Is it being stalked by this Matt and
Hench character by any chance? One bit of dusty here. Do you know Nasa has a problem with fake
fake space dust? So fake space dust is a thing which is space dust that's simulated it's actually
called simulant that's made on earth for scientists to do experiments on so if you are going to land
a rover on Mars or if you're thinking about you know astronauts going and living on a asteroid or
whatever then you've got to order in some fake space dust to see how that would work with that
all around it and so companies manufacture this but there's an issue because there's lots of dodgy
space dusts out there so for instance there are about 30 moon simulants available but some of them
are below par some of them are based on old models some of them are specifically for one thing that
won't work for another and this is a proper issue and Nasa's finally got this company who
mines asteroids to get actual dust off asteroids bring it back and exactly replicate it.
I know you say there are 30 companies that make fake dust I mean that's just fake moon dust.
Sorry that is mind-blowing isn't it. Did they make money do you think because I reckon there
might be 31 after this podcast the way Andy's looking. Moon dust by the way was a real worry for
Nasa when the Apollo 11 astronauts came back because they weren't sure if they were bringing back
an alien dust form that was going to you know send a plague around the planet so once Aldrin and
Collins and Armstrong got back they were quarantined in a room but they weren't on their own they were
also quarantined with a bunch of animals that were in surrounding areas so they basically they fed
lunar dust that they brought back to German cockroaches no to yeah to Japanese quail brown
shrimps oysters shellfish horse flies and they were injecting it into mice and they had to watch
how they reacted to the lunar dust to see if there was anything that went wrong because if anything
went wrong yeah how close were the quail and the shrimp to the guys were they in the same trailer
because they were quarantined. I assume that it must have been in surrounding areas because I think
they quarantined everything into one place but everything survived except for the oysters but
they don't think it was to do with the moon dust they think it was more to do with the fact
they were being tested during mating season and I guess it was stress levels that got to them and
they died but um yeah they were really worried about that and they kept doing that until I
think Apollo 14 I believe it was. So some spaced us in future might be dead people and so this is
about how we would dispose of corpses in space if ever we produced them and so for instance if
you're on the ISS you sometimes have to do drills as to you know what happens if someone dies where
you put them and actually NASA hasn't really worked out how to deal with dead bodies at the ISS
and so they've come up with a number of ideas and they commissioned a company to figure out how
best to dispose of them and the idea the company came up with was the body bag that is that you put
the body once the astronaut dies you put a body in an airtight bag and you send it out into space
but on a lead from the International Space Station so you still got hold of it so the whole body
freezes over the course of about an hour like putting a bottle of wine in the freezer or something
and then you you reel it back in and then the bag gets vigorously vibrated and that makes the body
shatter into a fine powder and then you store it in a container just outside the ISS you bring it
back in on re-entry and then you can present back to the family there to be fair in powder form but
still body of their deceased loved one and that's what they think they might do. I don't leave it
too long like a bottle of wine if you leave a bottle of wine overnight in the freezer. That's
that body explodes all over the ISS yeah I think but part of the idea is that they think people
would find it emotionally taxing to spend you know six months on the ISS with a dead body just there
in body form. But just if you're looking out the window and you're seeing Steve bobbing along on
his lead that's probably also emotionally taxing. Okay there's time for fact number two and that
is Anna. My fact this week is that every year power line repair workers have to pass a test
where they rescue a 12 stone dummy from the top of a telegraph pole. Wow. Being a line worker is a
lot more fun than I imagined turns out so this is people who they're like outdoor electricians so
that the guys who work on telegraph lines, electricity lines, cables, pylons all those things
and I was reading in Kent online an article about Rod Lurie who's been a power line worker for 56 years
and he said yeah every year you have to do the pole rescue test so he's in his 70s now
still does it. You climb a 15 meter pole there's a 12 stone dummy sitting at the top and you have
to carry it down and as if you're up there with your co-worker and they get an electric shock
or they have a heart attack or they fall asleep and you have to carry them down so it's to prepare
you for that. Yeah it makes sense. What if they're more than 12 stone? I mean 12 stone is not that
much. I mean do you have to strip them nude to take them down to get them as light as possible?
Yes. The problem is all those meteorites landing on them all the time it gets heavier and heavier
doesn't it? Old Matt Gend would be there for 40 years. Matt Gend is a really eminent scientist I don't
like the way he's become a byword for hanging around doing things like that. Anna did you read the
name of the dummy? I think it's the right dummy that I'm thinking about because this is a US one
as well which is called Rescue Randy. Yeah that's it. There's no way the English one is called Rescue
Randy. He's like a whole Barbie. He's like a Ken doll. There are all these different versions.
And accessories. You can get accessories there as well. Exactly. Oh you can put earrings on him
and a cat. You can buy a shredded rubber to stuff inside him. You can buy special overalls and he's
got this whole family so there's Rescue Jennifer, there's Rugged Randy and there's Trauma Randy.
Rugged Randy. It's not like the particularly attractive co-worker you have.
You have to carry him down but you have to hide your enormous erection as you're doing so because
he's so fit. But which pole do I climb? Anna did you read about Trauma Randy though?
No what does Trauma Randy do? Trauma Randy is what I call you, have the...
Randy Andy for me. Trauma Randy comes with four bleeding wounds.
Wow. I know but I think the top of the range is Casualty Care Rescue Randy
who costs 19 grand which is a lot. He holds four litres of blood and you can do actual
surgery on him and he has a, I'm quoting here, a manual foot operated pumping system which allows
three wounds to bleed simultaneously. These guys they must be used for other things. They can't
be a company that just sells these dolls just to go up telephone. It is! James there are 30 companies
which make fake dolls. We don't know the world anymore. Telegraph poles. Yeah there's loads of
them in America isn't there which is why I kind of think that I can accept that this company is
selling all of these things because in America like obviously all the places are quite spread out
compared to Britain for instance there's a lot more of them but they weren't even supposed to be
there the first ones because Samuel Moss who invented the telegraph he wanted to show that
he could get a message from Washington DC to Baltimore which is about 40 miles or something
like that but he wanted to go under the ground with his telegraph wires. He did that but it didn't
work and they had to kind of really quickly think oh shit what are we going to do and they erected
all these poles to put the telegraphs across and then when he did his famous like what have God
wrought telegraph message that he did that was going through the air that was going through the air
yeah I guess it's not obvious yeah under the ground is a much better place for them well that's what
some people think for sure they couldn't sell them in France you know the telegraph system
that Moss invented because they already had an optical telegraph which is like where you go on
top of the hill and you have a big sort of stick which does a semaphore and someone's on another
hill who can see it and they pass that message on to someone else on to someone else on to someone
else and that was really massive in France at the time it was invented by a French chap called Claude
Chap he was French until the 1850s it was the main way of sending messages in France and it was so
good and so useful that you couldn't sell anything better to them you could but they decided that
they wouldn't accept it so right we've already brought the technology to its absolute peak
haven't guys you're waving flags from mountaintop BT open reach they have a telegraph pole training
academy which is so cool it's just a big field in Peterborough which is full of dozens of nine
metre poles and that's the sort of dojo where their engineers train they seem like a vaguely fun
company actually open reach this is based on some of their PR materials so they released an article
where they said that their 500 strong team of engineers in 2020 climbed more than 11.5 million
meters close to a round trip from London to the North Pole no Anna hang on it doesn't they're
comparing apples and oranges there because walking to the North Pole is obviously very hard but it's
not as hard as climbing 10 million meters up into the air which would be really hard so I read that
article and I thought let's compare apples with apples and so I reckon that the open reach engineers
every two weeks do the equivalent of climbing to the ISS that's really good wow that's pretty cool
but that's that's between them right so there's only one person who gets there there's one person
on the very bottom hold their weight um you know we were saying about um whether sometimes you want
to transmit these signals above ground and sometimes underground and obviously today it's
preferable to do it underground and in fact it always has been but it's just that it's really
much more expensive to install wires underground than in poles but if you go to New York well if
you're in Manhattan at least you don't see a single electricity pole or a single radio
transmission pole and that is because in the 1880s when Edison was working on electric transmission
and New York was kind of his test case New York became this huge mass of wires and it looks insane
you can't see the sky it's just you know thousands of wires above your head and there was a blizzard
in 1888 this great blizzard of New York and the whole city went into blackout because it brought
down the wires and the mayor in 1889 who came in after that who was Mayor Hugh Grant uh in his
in a charmingly stammering speech that's what he did and he taught them into it and they brought
them all down um and so now it doesn't have any they're all underground thanks to Hugh Grant nice
in bits of Africa and South Africa there is a height restriction on how low you can have
your electricity poles do you know why that is well do you mean like they have to be a certain
height so that you don't yeah so that people well actually i've just heard Anna say giraffes and that
sounds good that is correct oh my answer i was gonna come up with a bit of a bit of whimsy there but
never mind sorry wow so for giraffes yeah they got to make sure that they don't get tangled up
because that did happen a few times in a few of the country so a restriction of height was put
into it so yeah the lines will always be taller than the tallest giraffe the lions will be taller
the lines the power lines oh lines sorry that's a frightening dystopia the world's exactly the same
except all the lions are bigger than giraffes i suppose in Africa you have lines men but also
lions men and you don't want to get that mixed up these in the old days you could calculate how
fast your train was going between Birmingham and Derby because the telegraph poles were exactly
the same distance apart so oh my god i've just imagined he'd be sat next to you on a train now
andy jesus christ they were 352 feet apart each exactly and you could count how many you passed
in a minute and that would help you calculate the speed of the train i always prove for this
conversation is how unpleasant it would have been to sit with you on a train
anytime anytime in history we've all been there and it's not nice
look andy i think i know somewhere that you'll fit in and that is the telegraph pole appreciation
society oh and i've bought your membership it's free it was it's founded in 1997 i spent a long
time on their website their motto is very catchy if it's tall wooden sticky upy and got wires coming
out of the top then we appreciate it do you see the pole of the month section and i had a look at
pole of the month yeah did you appreciate it i loved it november's pole of the month was particularly
beautiful and they really like to give a good description of the pole of the month so it was
november 2020 uh this sumptuous right angle double stack of three cross armed pole i would
hazard a guess is on the road between bidford and elmscott it's uh and then they have beautiful
photos and they have people who send in all their polls um you know there's a pylon appreciation
society as well what yeah you didn't find it anna you should check it out it's run by a lady called
flash bristo she lives in east london and she's one of the pylon spotters of the uk and she's got
530 photos 36 different countries absolutely obsessed with it and there is the famous pink
pylon which has actually its own appreciation website pinkpylon.co.uk don't go on that website
if you're listening to this yeah rugged randy's pink pylon i think i've read that okay actually
we're so appreciative in the uk this is what i've learned in this podcast
pylons onto the real meat pylons pylons oh my goodness well don't call them pylons don't call
them pylons why don't call them pylons because they're not called pylons i read this on the
science museum website it was a guy who works in the industry who says major faux pas so pylon
in engineering is a structure that holds something that's suspended from another structure to it
so the pylons on a pylon are actually the bits of metal that hold the wires up
a pylon itself is actually called a steel lattice tower so if you really want to impress
your friends when you see one say that's a nice steel lattice tower isn't it because the name
actually comes from ancient egypt doesn't it pylon so when they first started going up they
were just called whatever lattice structure you called the manner but they just found toot and
camoon and a few other mummies quite recently and egyptology was really really fashionable
and so they were looking for a name and they just thought oh if you go to a pyramid they have these
obelisk shaped towers on either side of the doors and they thought well you know what a great thing
to name it after they're called pylons let's call them pylons but i really like the egyptology
connection because i think in ancient egypt they were a gateway to the sun well that's maybe what
the word means and that's kind of what an electrical pylon is you know you're harnessing power and it's
kind of like a gateway to the sun you get light and you know okay everyone's going with that cool
it was such an absurd statement i think we just chose something to go i just feel and the i've been
picking on you a little bit too much in this section and i feel like i can give you a few passes
now thank you and i outright just believe that so yeah so um just have a few things on electricity
poles right they can be used and this is a tip for anyone who gets stuck out in the wild and
they're thinking have no way of sending an sos to anyone they can be used for you to be tracked down
so there was a guy in saskatchewan who was rescued after having disappeared for a few days by noticing
that there were power poles around him so he had an ax on him because he got lost in his boat and he
chopped four of them down by chopping four of them down hang on there's just a slight break in logic
he had an ax on him because he was lost in his boat of course not he had an oar on him or he
had a sail on him or a life jacket he was out in the wild he was obviously doing some chopping at
certain points he was in his boat and he got lost he got lost in a storm so he was no idea where he
was and he found these four poles so he chopped them down and then the local power source people
were alerted to these poles because it took out an entire town um the surrounding communities
were all all their electricity was knocked down so hundreds of people died yeah yeah
Dan I thought you were going to say because he had his ax on him he chopped down the poles and
he arranged them in the ground into the shape of the word help he only chopped down four though so
he's got h and the first part of an e it just looks like he's saying hi then the helicopter comes down
it just goes hi that flies up again okay it is time for fact number three and that is james
okay my fact this week is that the most expensive cow in the uk is called posh spice rude it's just
the name of the cow no aspersions on anyone else who has that name it's really hard to google because
you keep finding stories about victoria beckham saying i'm not a moody cow and
well this is an organism who's proud to be a cow i don't know what her mood is like but she was
sold very recently for 250 000 guineas which is 265 000 pounds but they still insist these farmers
on saying that everything was sold in guineas i don't know why they do that that really confused
me are they accepting pounds or is guine the currency that they get paid in it's in pounds a
guine is a pound in a shilling so it's just like uh it's another way of saying 265 000 pounds it's
really weird i think you read this and you think am i in the 18th century again yeah why is this news
come through a time tunnel it's so bizarre yeah but what's interesting about this cow is that actually
in the past and still at the moment but it's usually the bulls as in the male cows that get
sold for the most amount of money but recently due to breakthroughs in ivf methods a lot of cows
are starting to get sold for a lot more because due to ivf they can have lots more children whereas
normally you would just get your bull and it would be able to have as many youngsters as you like
but now that's also true to a slightly lesser extent but still true of the female cows and so
yeah they've sold it for just over 200 grand and the reason that you buy it is because it's such a
good cow for breeding that even the embryos of posh spice will be able to sell for several thousands
of pounds if you if you're just tuning in at this point then go back maybe a couple of minutes to
know what i'm talking about when i say that she's not especially if you're posh spice fashion line
and the reason uh this cow is called posh spice is because her mother was called ginger spice and
they never acknowledged that in the band did they they never acknowledged that they were actually
mother and daughter i think we should not keep making hilarious mistakes and get this cow and
this single mixed up but she's a limousin heifer and i didn't know that limousin is where you get
the best cows in france it's a place it's in the foothills of the massive central and um
and that's where the limousine come from yeah and that's where limousines come from i think they
were named after a carriage weren't they and the carriage was named after maybe a monk because it
had a hood over the top these monks would have hoods i think and they lived in limousine i think
that that's very cool that's a cool link remember that so i think that this might currently be the
most expensive cow in the whole world but certainly historically it isn't because there have been cows
in the past that have been sold for over a million dollars in the us in fact in the 1980s there was
kind of a fashion for buying cows for more than a million dollars sorry what's that in guineas
these new fangled americans honestly uh there was a tax loop hole that came in in the 80s that
meant if you bought some really expensive cows you wouldn't have to pay as much tax and so you
had hollywoodic stars and wall street bankers just buying these cows they wouldn't keep them in there
like hollywood homes they would own a part of them and they would live in the farm if you know
i mean it's like an investment yeah they weren't like on the red carpet for all the previous everything
right pits showed up with his legs down
david beckham's brought the wrong posh buys he always confuses them
and then there was one called missy who was a bit after that maybe in the late 80s early 90s i can't
remember exactly when it was but she sold for well over a million dollars but the people who bought
her they'd already had 3.23 million dollars worth of pre-signed contracts for the embryos of this cow
so you bought it knowing that assuming it you know nothing goes wrong you'll be able to definitely
recoup two three four times that amount of money that you paid for it wow i read about missy there
was a kind of slightly weird press release about what a great cow missy was it said she's extremely
tall long and stylish she walks on great feet and legs and has a great mammary system it does
sound like it's been copy pasted from page three doesn't it and um posh buys of course they did
describe her as well she has a larger loin depth reduced fat cover and a greater meat tenderness
and again if you're just tuning in at this point please do go to the start of this fact
James who are these people you imagine who are just tuning in it's not a radio show
a classic listener let's start 20 minutes into the show
i love their third and fourth facts but i've always hated the first two
um i was looking into cows that were sold for lots of money so i found a really odd
wand that i just want to quickly mention and this was a cow that wasn't actually particularly
special it was a cow that was designated to be slaughtered it was a cow called mini-moo
and mini-moo was a cow that had a very odd pattern on the side that looked exactly like
mini mouse's head so the little three the two ears and the and the head
so the niece of the owners of this cow wrote to disney and said this cow is due for slaughter but
we think you might like it and they saw her and went yes so they bought it for an undisclosed
amount we don't actually know and mini was taken over to the magic kingdom where she was in the
petting farm she was later moved to another petting zoo that disney owns and she was really big and
she kind of for disney sparked off a really big moment where people started sending in pictures
of their pigs and dogs that had little patterns on them some people had potatoes that had a little
witty mouse wicky mouse look at it yeah and so they were inundated that must have really turned
around the fortune of the disney company don't sound like a big moment you can just imagine mini
as she was being driven away turning around to giving her two middle fingers up at the cow she
was leaving behind can't you because she did live then until 2001 she's insane all the other cows
she was with right by 15 years yeah the most expensive pig ever sold was a yorkshire bore
which went for $270,000 in 2014 and it was raised by the western illinois university
school of agriculture professor mark hoagie and his family and the name hoagie comes from an old
anglo saxon word meaning someone who keeps pigs oh that's so good isn't that what that's what we
get hog presumably yeah exactly and herd as well hogs and herds all come from that old word
chickens can be very expensive another expensive farm animal are we going to guess oh no i don't
actually have a specific price so you could i would be able to tell you i was more going to talk
about the chicken bubble of the 1840s do you guys know about this no this is when chicken suddenly
became incredibly sought after it's when i think in the west we suddenly discovered loads of asian
breeds of chicken and imported them queen victoria got obsessed with chickens she built an aviary
she used to spend hours sitting in there with her chickens talking to them she used to send
individual eggs to her royal relatives all over europe and so this got really fashionable to collect
chickens and their price went through the roof it's so weird isn't it all these things that go in
bubbles and just become really expensive for no reason like tulips and chickens and yeah like
it's almost worth just having one of every random thing in your house just in case
one cosmic dust particle you never know one bit kind and that would have worked that would have
worked so did she partly start the poultry craze then Anna was it she started the poultry craze
yeah well very much fired it people used to hire bodyguards to protect their chicken coops
but then suddenly bubble burst as these bubbles do and the good thing about that is that there
was this enormous number of very exotic weirdo chickens which now no one could tell for anything
and so darwin bought them all up and this was 1855 and he bought them and he interbred and
interbred and interbred them and this was how he developed loads of his theories about interbreeding
and this is how he showed that actually they still had a shared ancestor and they went it's
not handy that's really good yes you saw these bubbles you know it's worth it um I looked up the
term because I was thinking cows are now turning into cash cows like with this new IVF program
that you were mentioning oh yeah so I just thought cash cow where does that come from do we know who
came up with that and turns out we do it was a guy called Peter F Drucker and Peter F Drucker was
sort of the father of management thinking he wrote lots of books where he talked about how to run
companies and how to do management and so on and one of his words which he came up with in the 1960s
was cash cow and he's a guy who sort of he wrote so many books and he wrote a couple of novels
but I guess to the public he's kind of dropped out of he was he was a big name back in the day
we don't really know him now except for in Japan where he is quite a big name because in 2009
a novel was written which was called what if the female manager of a high school baseball team
read Drucker's management and it was massive it sold 1.8 million copies in its first year
it was the year's best-selling novel in Japan and it has since been turned into a live action film
it's been turned into an anime he's sort of a household name there in Japan at the moment and
yeah that's the guy who came up with the term cash cow there's another famous cow or bull rather
it happened in February this year a Texan beef company started giving out free semen from one
of their cows because and James will know about this because James knows about the Super Bowl
and this year the Tampa Bay Buccaneers they won the Super Bowl they did Tom Brady plays for them
and the Texan beef company owns a bull named Tom Brady and to celebrate the win of the team
which contained the player after whom their cow is named or bull rather they gave out free orders
of semen to anyone who had requested it okay wow yeah yeah wow who was it to anyone could I call
up and said like some semen I don't think it could have been to anyone I think you must have to say
it's going to a good cow I don't think they'd just send you some bull semen in the post
well you could say it's going to a good cow and how they're going to check very good point
just send a photo of a random cow can I just say for anyone who's just tuned in
okay it is time for our final fact of the show and that is my fact my fact this week is that the
person who has acted in more batman movie reboots than anyone else is also the third in line to be
president of the united states this is a weird system where the person who's acted in more batman
movie reboots gets to be the third in line isn't it so it goes the succession of line into the
presidency is Kamala Harris Nancy Pelosi and then batman uberfan Patrick Leahy he has other
titles doesn't he's not just he does have other titles yeah yeah he's an amazing senator
he is a massive batman fan and he has appeared in five different batman movies but he's appeared
in batman movies that have stretched across the whole modern cinematic history of batman so his
first cameo was in batman forever which was the movie that starred val kilmer and then he was in
batman and robin when it was george cluny and then he went into the christa van oland series
where he starred in two of the movies the dark night and the dark sorry you've got to stop saying
starred in i haven't seen any of these movies so maybe he does he gets menaced by the joker the
heath ledger joker i mean it's pretty that's high values green time it's not just he's a
guy in the background or anything so he has lines does he have lines he does he has a line he says
to heath ledger's joker we're not intimidated by thugs and then he replies you know you remind
me of my father and he said it was really scary because i don't know if you remember but heath
ledger really went method on the acting of the movie there and he had a knife in his hand and it
was pressed up against the senator's face and he thought this guy's pretty unhinged so he was a
bit scared but he loves it he loves doing it um this guy lehi patrick lehi he's not only a batman
superfan but it's incredibly sweet the story because he started reading the batman comics when
he was a little boy and he's he's roughly the same age as batman batman's just about 80 now and
he's a bit younger than that but all of his fees from the films or as he calls them his bat earnings
they they go they go to the library where he first read the stories when he was a little boy
himself and he financed a children's wing of the library okay fine fine i'll let him off his
bat earnings if he's given it all to children's charities he worked with dc comics uh because
they were making a batman comic about landmines and that was used as part of a campaign uh when
there was a bill coming up to ban landmines and he distributed it among the the other senators so
yeah he said that he um he decided not to be in the reboot which with robert patternson which
i think is coming out maybe this year um and he explained that the reason is that he just doesn't
have time with covid and appropriation bills and the like although i'm not totally clear that anyone
asked him to be in it there was never he was requested well in the last one he was in he was
blown up it was in batman versus superman so it's possible he's not in a new reboot because
they finally killed off his character because he does play himself in a couple of the movies
does he sometimes not play himself yeah he sometimes plays a different so how do you explain
in this batman universe that you've got someone who looks just like a senator who's in a different
movie batman says he actually has a line at one point he says oh it's funny you look just like
another senator i bet he's practically but you're not him are you and then he says no
is he i mean he's pretty cool do you think they might as well bump him up a couple of his places
in the mind of succession no you can't you can't do that you can't have batman in charge of the
white house and the reason i say that is because i was looking into seeing if joe biden had been
in any movies he hasn't really but what i did find out which i didn't know and a lot of people might
do is that his middle name is robinette isn't that cool robinette joe robinette yeah joe robinette's
biden so it's robin as in the sidekick of batman with e double te at the end and apparently um
the robinettes came over to america with lafayette um you know during the late 18th century and they
never went home and so he is descended from there and it was his mother's maiden name and he took
it as a middle name wow do you know the robinettes they actually only came over to america because
lafayette said he might need a rhyme for him in musical hamilton so batman is apparently the batman
that i like the most is the one that everyone hates i learned and i guess it's just the one
that you've seen in your childhood when you were a kid which i appreciate as a six-year-old i probably
wasn't the best judge but do you know it's batman forever and people blame its badness on mcdonald's
so apparently it's all mcdonald's fault that it's not as good and this is because so the first two
batmans which were batman and batman returns were thimburton making them and they are good
and i have seen them so they are excellent and they are well tune in next week for another movie review
both good films very dark very violent and mcdonald's decided to promote them in their happy meals
because they were like batmans this long-running tv series very happy clappy and fun and so they
signed this big old contract saying we'll put all these characters in our happy meals
the films came out and the films were going to be like 18 adult rated they had to really
fight and cut loads of scenes to get them down to pg 13 now mcdonald's happy meals are targeting
exclusively the one to ten age range so they were promoting a film that they were all too young to see
and basically they were appalled the films came out and mcdonald's went to burton and the filmmakers
and said look like the penguin what's this gross black stuff coming out of his mouth we can't
promote any of this and after that there was this controversy about how they were too dark and too
depressing and burton was given the boot and then who was brought in to direct i think it was
joel schumacher joel schumacher who got a lot of stick basically had to make them more child
friendly not too friendly to include nipples that was the main talking point of the film
with joel schluny is that there are bat nipples on the front of his bat costume yes but the reason
for that is that i read about this because i haven't watched any of these movies despite them all being
good now i know they're good i might watch them but in the original batmans the suits were made
by a guy called bob ringwood but when they made the new suits the techniques of being able to mold
rubber were way way more advanced and so they wanted to show off how advanced they were
so they decided the way they were going to do that was to make them more anatomical
and so how do you make a chest more anatomical apart from putting nipples on it on the nibs
and that was they were made by um joe zay finandez or jose finandez i can't remember how to say his
first name but um he is the guy also who did the helmets for that punk that punk yeah he does those
helmets he's done loads of like stuff for hollywood over the years and he also designed the spacesuits
for space x yeah do you remember ilan musk wanted some sexy spacesuits and they were invented by
joe zay finandez i'm not sure if they have nipples on them or not because i haven't seen them but i
think it's really unfair to slam the bat nipples because bats are mammals yeah point is that they
have nipples yeah and so batman accurately he'd have loads of nipples yes are they angry there's
not enough nipples he should have them in his crotch like where don't bats have them in their
their armpits yeah crotch is an armpits are two very different things they're landing i don't know
i must see my taylor i always wonder why you wore your trousers like that
so batman first appeared in 1939 march 30th and as you were saying andy very close to the birth of
patrick lehi who was born a year and a day later and it was created by bob cain and bill finger um
bob cain being the person who's taken all the credit for it bill finger sort of in the background
no one really knows much about him but he lost all the credit but they um they both went to the same
high school in the bronx in new york which was called de wid clinton high school and another
student who went to that school was stan lee the creator of spider man and so around the same time
was it or it was about a six year difference so they might have been there at the same time yeah
it's quite possible wow that's amazing bill finger create batman as you say and he was completely
uncredited until after he died when uh he was almost reluctantly put in some of the memoirs
but he came up with the name bruce wane i think apparently it was him who decided to do that
and bruce based on robert bruce or robert the bruce as you may incorrectly know him
as in scottish patrick king warrior and that was because they thought he should have noble blood
and he his ashes were scattered in the shape of a bat wow they could have done it in the shape
of a finger as well couldn't they if they wanted much easier um so yeah no one knew when he was alive
so that was kind of his secret identity you could say you could say the real batman
um guys do you know how many batmans batman ways uh what i'd say one and i don't understand the
question i i i do i'm trying to work it out um i'm gonna say 16 it's 29 and what are you talking
about sorry so batman is a unit of measurement and it was an old ottoman unit of weight in
ottoman and kind of the steps area you still get the batman region in turkey as the batman river
and yeah it's actually been in fact dan might have been working it out based on one of the
different weights it had because throughout time it's been cited as being you know various
different weights but in 1599 in english it was seven pounds and five ounces and the comic books say
that batman weighs 210 pounds so i believe he weighs a prox 29 batmans in case you're wondering
okay in batman weight terms would you be able to rescue him from the top of a telegraph pole
if you were a trained open reach engineer he must be heavier than 12 stone is what anna was saying
yeah you definitely have to get him naked i mean if batman can't get down from a telegraph pole
something's gone really wrong oh just speaking of other uses of what batman could mean so in the
batman movies and in the whole series generally batman obviously has his trusty butler alfred
with him who's a key part of every single movie and comic and so on but interestingly during wars
they're like world war one for example you used to have a batman by your side who was your butler
the batman in war was the alfred of the lieutenants of war and the idea was yeah you
would be assigned a batman who would go and they would make sure that you had your personal equipment
they worked as a valet if you had to go into combat they acted as a bodyguard so i think they
would sort of stand in front of him there's no way in a war that is a waste of mud power if every
soldier has to have a bodyguard well what it said is acting as the officer's bodyguard in combat
so i assume that's what it is that you sort of yeah they would dig they would dig the officer's
foxholes and sometimes and this was particularly for the british once the war was over if you had a
batman during war they would continue on as your butler in real life they would they would be hired
by you and go on that is so insane i try to find some notable batmans um peter eustonov was a batman
the famous actor peter eustonov and he was a batman to david niven during the war
so the word bat means it's like a bag that a horse carries uh that's why your batman would be the
person who put all the stuff like kept all your stuff together and so you would have a batman
and he would also have a bat horse and the bat horse would be the thing that carried the bags on
it and the bat horse might carry the guy's bat money which is what you would pay a batman so
in war you might have a batman with a bat horse containing his bat money that's so cool
there was bat woman of course or there is bat woman uh bat woman first appeared in the dc comics
as a love interest for batman to dispel suggestions that he was homosexual um because he kept kind of
i think this is a meme in batman that he keeps almost getting married and then never quite gets
married uh and anyway there was a lot of um kind of suggestions that he was homosexual and in the
senate at the time this was in the 50s there was lots of worries that comic books were causing
problems with children causing juvenile delinquency and various things like that and so they brought
bat woman in as kind of a way to show that batman was not gay but then bat woman has since openly
come out she is now gay since 2006 she was introduced as a lesbian of jewish descent uh
who found love interest in former goffin police detective renae montaya in your face the 1950s
yes it's quite funny saying well oh we're terribly worried batman might be gay so let's give him a
normal relationship with a woman who is also obsessed with dressing up as a bat like that
is that family values uh just quickly i was watching a youtube clip of from a dc official
site and on it they say this thing which i find hilarious because they haven't put this in the
movies but batman is always signaled to by commissioner gordon by the bat signal the
famous bat signal goes into the sky now apparently according to dc the reality behind it is is that
commissioner gordon or any police officer is not allowed to turn that on because by doing that that
would be qualifying an official endorsement of the city's government for this vigilante that was
going around he's not allowed to do it so apparently the police office has a civilian on site at all
times so that as soon as gordon needs to switch it on he goes you get up here and they have to go
up and switch it on on his behalf so that he's had no hand he's still giving an instruction yeah
exactly that is not even a loophole yeah what you need is someone to to be in the office and
you say gosh i wish someone would call batman but really subtle so it's deniable yeah yeah
and then you go out for see you like i'm going out for lunch i'll be back in exactly five minutes
i'm gonna have my lunch on the roof just one more thing that was sent into the podcast email
actually about a year ago a couple of years ago fan called daniel braga who i believe is brazilian
and he informed me that in 2019 police arrested in one go batman spider man and green lantern
so was it like people on a stag do who were all dressed like this or was it i don't know
it actually wasn't it's this really interesting thing i didn't know they had which is in brazilian
towns they have fun trains which is people are paid to dress up on these fun trains that's any
train when you're sat next to adi absolutely as long as there's a telegraph pole within 300 feet
and we're between birmingham and darby they were arrested for assault but they were led off because
they were assaulting a man who kept banging on about telegraph no they were so there are these
people who are paid to dress up as superheroes and like knock off some cheap versions of famous
kids characters to entertain children and a police officer ended up arresting three of them
who dressed up as spider man green lantern and batman and they were put in prison for
vandalism and possession of loads of firearms and stuff like that but the person who arrested them
was a female police officer called thanos no way
okay that's it that is all of our facts thank you so much for listening if you would like to
get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast
we can be found on our twitter accounts i'm on at shribeland james at james harkin andy at andrew
hunter m and anna you can email podcast at qi.com yep or you can go to our group account which is
at no such thing or our website no such thing as a fish.com all of our previous episodes are up there
why not check it out in the meantime we'll be back again next week we'll see you then goodbye
(upbeat music)